Add documentation for FEVER baseline (#1297)
castorini/anserini: docs/experiments-fever.md

# Anserini: BM25 Baselines for FEVER Fact Verification

This page contains instructions for running BM25 baselines on the [FEVER fact verification task](https://fever.ai/).

## Data Prep

We are going to use the repository's root directory as the working directory.

First, we need to download and extract the FEVER dataset:

```bash
mkdir collections/fever
mkdir indexes/fever

wget https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/fever.public/wiki-pages.zip -P collections/fever
unzip collections/fever/wiki-pages.zip -d collections/fever

wget https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/fever.public/train.jsonl -P collections/fever
wget https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/fever.public/paper_dev.jsonl -P collections/fever
```

To confirm, `wiki-pages.zip` should have MD5 checksum of `ed8bfd894a2c47045dca61f0c8dc4c07`.

## Building Lucene Indexes

Next, we want to index the Wikipedia dump (`wiki-pages.zip`) using Anserini. Note that this Wikipedia dump consists of Wikipedia articles' introductions only, which we will refer to as "paragraphs" from this point onward.

> We currently have implemented two variants: (1) indexing paragraphs and (2) indexing sentences within each paragraph separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will consider two variants: (1) Paragraph Indexing and (2) Sentence Indexing.
```

### Paragraph

We can index paragraphs with `FeverParagraphCollection`, as follows:

```bash
sh target/appassembler/bin/IndexCollection \
 -collection FeverParagraphCollection -generator DefaultLuceneDocumentGenerator \
 -threads 9 -input collections/fever/wiki-pages \
 -index indexes/fever/lucene-index-fever-paragraph -storePositions -storeDocvectors -storeRaw 
```

Upon completion, we should have an index with 5,396,106 documents (paragraphs).

### Sentence

We can index sentences with `FeverSentenceCollection`, as follows:

```bash
sh target/appassembler/bin/IndexCollection \
 -collection FeverSentenceCollection -generator DefaultLuceneDocumentGenerator \
 -threads 9 -input collections/fever/wiki-pages \
 -index indexes/fever/lucene-index-fever-sentence -storePositions -storeDocvectors -storeRaw 
```

Upon completion, we should have an index with 25,247,887 documents (sentences).

## Performing Retrieval on the Dev Queries

> (We will use the paragraph index for this section, though the steps could be easily modified for the sentence index.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that while we use paragraph indexing for this section, these steps can easily be modified for sentence indexing.
```

```

We tune the BM25 parameters with a grid search of parameter values in 0.1 increments. We save the run files generated by this process to a new folder `runs/fever-bm25` (do not use `runs` here).

```bash
python src/main/python/fever/tune_bm25.py \
 --runs_folder runs/fever-bm25 \
 --index_folder indexes/fever/lucene-index-fever-paragraph \
 --queries_file collections/fever/queries.paragraph.train-subset.tsv \
 --qrels_file collections/fever/qrels.paragraph.train-subset.tsv
```

From the grid search, we observe that the parameters `k1=0.6`, `b=0.5` perform fairly well. If we retrieve on the dev set with these parameters:

```bash
python tools/scripts/msmarco/retrieve.py \
 --hits 1000 --threads 1 \
 --index indexes/fever/lucene-index-fever-paragraph \
 --queries collections/fever/queries.paragraph.dev.tsv \
 --output runs/run.fever-paragraph-0.6-0.5.dev.tsv \
 --k1 0.6 --b 0.5
```

and we evaluate this run file:

```bash
python src/main/python/fever/evaluate_doc_retrieval.py \
 --truth_file collections/fever/paper_dev.jsonl \
 --run_file runs/run.fever-paragraph-0.6-0.5.dev.tsv
```

then we can achieve the following results:

| k   | Fully Supported | Oracle Accuracy |

> |:----|----------------:|----------------:|

Reviewer: Can we fix this at the same sig figs as the table in the paper (modify the code to do that too?). Table will look a little neater.

Author: My concern for modifying the code to do that is that the tabbed printing will get messed up, but I guess that's not too important lol

| 1	  | 0.3856885689    | 0.5904590459    |
| 5	  | 0.6366636664    | 0.7577757776    |
| 10  | 0.7193219322    | 0.8128812881    |
| 25  | 0.8003300330    | 0.8668866887    |
| 50  | 0.8472847285    | 0.8981898190    |
| 100 | 0.8804380438    | 0.9202920292    |

> which outperforms the TF-IDF baseline in the FEVER paper at almost every value of k.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which outperforms the TF-IDF baseline in the FEVER paper at every tested value of k.
```

Author: Unfortunately we don't seem to outperform TF-IDF at k=50?

Author: Oh nvm, looks like their reported oracle accuracy is wrong (assuming their fully supported % is right)

Reviewer: yeah, I just looked at the first column since the second is determined exclusively by it.
